detective recapped here today i'm going
to explain a crime film called catch me
if you can
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
a young man named frank abagnale jr
lives a prosperous and stable life in
new rochelle
new jersey with his parents frank senior
and his french mother
paula one evening the new rochelle
rotary club offers frank senior a token
of achievement
frank jr looks to his father with pride
and admiration from the front seat
back at home frank senior recounts how
he met his wife paula while frank jr and
his mother are dancing
his mother ends up spilling wine on the
carpet so frank jr goes to the kitchen
to get a towel
when he returns to the living room he
watches his parents lovingly dance to
ella fitzgerald's embraceable you
early the next morning frank senior
wakes his son abruptly and tells him not
to go to school and come with him to a
big meeting instead
the two drive up to a tailor to borrow a
black suit but the woman rejects them
saying that they don't open for half an
hour and thaffy don't lend suits
in response frank senior produces a gold
necklace from his pocket and asks the
woman if it was hers
moments later frank and his son drive up
to chase and manhattan bank with frank
jr donning the black suit
frank tells him to wait in the car and
asks him why the yankees always win
to this he tells him that people can't
take their eyes off of the pinstripes
teaching frank jr to value deviousness
and misdirection
frank senior then enters the bank to
loan some money but the teller refuses
because frank senior was being
investigated for tax fraud
in the end frank senior fails to borrow
money and trades their car instead
later the abignale family is forced to
move out of their home because of their
continued financial decline and frank
seniors tax fraud issues
despite this frank senior continues to
do his best to do good for his son
frank senior gave his son a checkbook on
his 16th birthday and opened an account
for him at a bank with 25
inside it still knee-deep in their
financial throws
frank jr is forced to go to a public
school on his first day
he wears his private school uniform
since he doesn't know what else to wear
and he's gotten used to wearing it when
he enters the school the local bully
greets him with a shove
frank jr makes his way to his classroom
and one of the kids remarks that he
looks like a substitute teacher
this gives him the impromptu idea to
pose as a substitute teacher
so he starts ordering the kids to sit
and they comply
he then proceeds to teach the class and
uses the opportunity to humiliate the
bully who shoved him earlier
leaving the boy flustered and thinking
that he had picked on an actual teacher
a few weeks passed by and frank jr's
parents were called on by the principal
he reports that frank jr had been posing
as a substitute teacher for weeks now
and he's even held a parent teacher
conference
his parents are surprised by this but
frank's father secretly takes pride in
his son's shenanigans
back at home near is shocked to find his
father's friend jack leaving the bedroom
with his mother
frank jr is completely taken aback and
his mother despite her discomfort
tries to keep him quiet with money he
then goes to his room
and shuts the door sometime passes by
and frank jr comes home to yet another
man in their house
junior lashes out outraged but the man
calms him down and takes him to the room
where his parents are waiting for him
the man is an attorney and he tries to
explain that frank jr's parents are
getting a divorce
they hand him an official document
asking him to write the name of the
parent he wants to go with for custody
filled with emotion the perplexed boy is
unable to come to a decision
so he bolts out of the room and runs
straight to the train terminal in a
panic
for the next few months frank bounces
back and forth between hotels and other
odd places to get himself on his feet
using the checkbook his father gave him
the checks were all fraudulent however
since he didn't have any money
whatsoever
one day frank who is still a minor tries
to pass off as an older professional to
get a loan
he learns how to tamper with documents
and checks to get his way but he gets
rejected by
every bank he goes to since he was still
starting to learn as frank leaves
another bank from a failed loan
a dignified pilot together with several
young and beautiful flight attendants
gets down from a cab frank is completely
entranced by the fabulous display in the
admiration surrounding the pilot
inspired frank gets the idea to pose as
a pilot himself
he pretends to be a high school student
writing an article for the school paper
and
interviews a professional from the
airport through this he gathers all the
needed information that he could use to
impersonate a pilot
he then makes some phone calls to get
into some of pan am heirs uniform
suppliers
through his connivances he receives an
official uniform and even creates
fraudulent payroll checks that pan and
air employees could cash in
however his constant lying one day bites
him back when he is boarded on a plane
as a deadhead
not knowing what it meant frank jr makes
the acquaintance of the pilots and the
flight attendants
luckily for him a deadhead is airline
slang for a pilot tagging along on a
free ride to be repositioned for an
assignment and not someone responsible
for manning a flight of his own
over time he's able to accumulate
millions worth of forged checks using
his slick charms and clever trickery
one afternoon frank meets with his
father to surprise him with a cadillac
while frank senior is grateful he
refuses to use it because the irs will
think it's suspicious
he then becomes tearful as frank jr
brings up his mother
still frank senior promises to continue
fighting for her and to bring their
family back together
which frank jr wants more than anything
else carl henratty
a no-nonsense and determined fbi agent
begins to track down frank because of
his check frauds
carl manages to arrive at the hotel
frank is currently staying in
he springs into action and heads for
frank's room frank is on the way to his
hotel room when he passes by mr murphy
a blind old man aided by his companion
on the way out the hallway
frank greets mr murphy and enters his
hotel room
carl arrives in frank's room holding out
a gun he searches the room for frank who
then appears from the bathroom
despite his intrusion frank looks at
carl in a poised and calm manner before
telling him that he is agent barry allen
from the secret service
while this lowers carl's guard he still
demands identification from him
just before carl could open frank's
wallet he directs him to the window
saying that his partner is apprehending
the criminal already
carl looks out and sees mr murphy being
assisted to his car by his companion
this convinces him and he eases up so
frank makes his leave while his wallet
is still with carl
the man slumps down on the bed and
checks the wallet only to find it devoid
of any identification cards
when he looks out the window frank is
already running frank has escaped and
continues to learn more about aviation
by continuing to pose as a student
writing a paper
eventually the airline professional
stops him and tells him to leave but not
before handing him a news article about
a con artist posing as a pilot around
airlines called the skyway man
in the article he's called the james
bond of the sky
the remark inspires frank to see the
latest bond flick and he then buys the
exact suit and car that james bond wore
in the movie
he goes to a hotel and meets a seductive
woman with who he ends up spending the
night
on christmas eve carl henratty sits
alone at his desk in the office while
everyone else is with their families
carl suddenly receives a call on the
phone and hears frank's voice
he apologizes for fooling him before and
tells carl that he wants to meet in a
hotel
but carl calls it a bluff and disregards
the whole thing
he proceeds to upset frank by pointing
out that the only reason he's calling
him is that he has no one else to call
frankton hangs up and carl is left
getting a kick out of it
the following day carl spends his
morning in a diner
he also looks up barry allen in the
phone book and sees several addresses of
people listed under the name
a young waiter happens to see his papers
and asks him if he's a fan of barry
allen
with barry allen being the true identity
of the fictional superhero the flash
this is when carl realizes that frank is
just a kid
with this new information in mind he
calls his partners to look up every
missing child case to try and find frank
eventually carl and the fbi agents find
frank's mother
paula paula who now has remarried
cooperates with the fbi agents
she hands them a picture of her son from
his yearbook allowing carl to identify
frank and get his name
meanwhile frank is living it up as he
started using his money to throw parties
at one such party a friend of his gets
into an accident and he has to see him
in the hospital
there he meets a young nurse named
brenda strong the two of them build a
connection and are immediately enamored
by each other
frank claims to brenda that he is a
doctor and he's looking for a job
it's unclear at first why he decided to
impersonate a doctor
but later in a letter to his father he
states that he's tired of running and
wants to find someone to settle down
with
hinting at his affection towards brenda
frank manages to con his way into
becoming a doctor named frank connors
with a supervisory position
in the hospital frank and brenda's
affection blossoms into a romance when
the two of them share a kiss one day in
frank's office
however the kiss is interrupted when
frank gets called into the er
the staff there asks for advice on what
to do with a young boy who had a bike
accident
despite his lack of any formal knowledge
he fakes his way out of the situation
and gets away with it
meanwhile carl henratty visits frank
senior and from their meeting
carl immediately observes where frank jr
inherited his sly personality from
frank senior is evasive with his answers
whenever he's asked about junior
but before carl leaves frank senior
tells him that he'll never give up his
son
this is when karl spots frank jr's
letter splayed out on the table
and he takes note of the address after
some time
frank expresses his genuine feelings for
brenda and even asked to marry her
they both agree to meet brenda's parents
over lunch while they were there
frank mentions that he's also a lawyer
like brenda's father
this is news to brenda and she excitedly
tells her father to let frank
work for him in his law office later on
brenda's father confronts frank about
who he really is
to this frank says i'm not a doctor i'm
not a lawyer
i'm not an airline pilot i'm nothing
really
i'm just a kid who's in love with your
daughter luckily for him
brenda's father misinterprets this as
some metaphor and gives frank his
blessing
frank eventually ends up passing the
louisiana board exam and begins his work
with brenda's father
there he tries to learn what he can
about law but gets yelled at by a judge
when he mishandles some procedures
at the strong residence frank is
beginning to feel dejected when he
watches brenda and her family having a
happy time together because he remembers
his own family
which is now broken frank meets with his
father in a bar and tells him eagerly
that they'll get their family back
frank senior who's now working in the
post office tells his son that his
mother paula has already remarried
upsetting frank jr he tells his father
that he wants to stop running
but his father encourages him to
continue with that
frank jr leaves it's christmas eve and
once again
frank gives carl a call he tells him he
wants a truce and he's getting married
soon
carl then says that he doesn't have a
choice and then he needs to catch him
because it's his job
frank tells him that he just thought he
should ask then greets him merry
christmas before hanging up
carl has his new lead when he realizes
that frank won't be changing his last
name this time since he's going to get
married
it's not long before carl finds his way
into frank and brenda's wedding party
when frank sees carl coming he retreats
to his room and brenda follows after him
he finally tells her everything and then
gives her instructions to meet him after
two days at the airport
the couple bid each other a
heartbreaking goodbye just after their
very union
carl steps into the room but frank is
already gone
two days later frank is waiting for
brenda at the airport
he spots her in a pink top carrying her
luggage he is elated to see her but is
quickly disappointed when he notices
brenda seeming to heed instructions from
a concealed earpiece
frank surveys the surroundings and
anticipates the fbi
causing him to leave franklin hatches a
plan to get to the airport again
he poses as a pilot once more and comes
up with a fake internship program that
he offers to eight young women from a
nearby school
carl who has about a hundred men on
airline security watches out for frank
but frank only steps right into the door
in his pilot outfit with his entourage
of beautiful flight attendants to
distract the attention of the all-male
security officers
frank eludes them once again and fly
straight out of the country
seven months later the fbi grows weary
of catching frank
with the sole exception of carl who
still has every intention of capturing
him
eventually carl realizes that the checks
retrieved from frank were all real
checks
this leads him to ask some experts about
what kind of machine could produce that
kind of checks
the experts mention those machines exist
in other countries as well
carl then remembers their conversation
with paula and he figures that frank
might be in his mother's village in
france
carl finally tracks down frank and
monresha it's christmas eve
and a crowd of people gathers at the
nearby chapel he enters the check
factory and finds frank producing checks
by the hundreds
a scared and exhausted frank welcomes
carl like an old friend
at this point carl is concerned and
protective almost
so he tries to convince frank to give up
he tells him that with the french
police's anger and embarrassment they
are now planning to kill him
frank finally lets carl take him but
when they go outside
he is taken by the french police to
their local prison
there he almost dies two years later due
to the poor conditions
eventually carl finds a way to take
frank back home to the united states
while they're on the plane carl informs
frank that his father has died
grief stricken frank escapes from the
plane through the bathroom stall
he hurriedly goes to where his mother
and her new husband live
despite all his staggering efforts frank
only ends up getting the last bit of
hope sucked out of him
he sees that his mother has moved on
with her life and she now has a young
daughter
devoid of both his father and any chance
of bringing his family back
frank loses the will to go on finally he
surrenders to carl who arrived with the
fbi
he is then sentenced to 12 years in a
maximum security prison
during his sentence carl visits frank
every now and again
during one such visit he shows frank a
fraudulent check that he's working on
frank instantly identifies that the
teller is involved in the scheme
impressed carl convinces the fbi to let
frank serve the rest of his sentence
working for the fbi and the fbi bank
fraud unit
frank agrees to this and begins working
with carl much to the hesitation of
other fbi members
one day while frank is walking down the
street he finds a tailor shop with a
pilot uniform displayed
reminding him of his former exploits
with the weekend coming in
the sorrow creeps to frank as he's left
with no friends or family to support him
this causes him to backslide into his
old habits and that weekend
he dons a pilot uniform to try and board
a plane before he could
carl intercepts him and tells him that
no one's chasing him anymore
if he's planning to go carl won't stop
him because he knows he'll be back
monday comes and carl nervously waits on
frank with what decision he's made
to his relief frank soon comes back and
he helps karl with the case
finally frank has found himself a place
to belong
frank abagnale jr has since then been
married for 26 years and resides in the
midwest with his three sons
frank has built a successful living as
one of the world's leading experts on
bank fraud and forgery
and he maintains a friendship with carl
henratty
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching